I was born in a
time of dreams.
We were pure of spirit
and devout in our beliefs.
The blessings of Avis
were showered upon us,
and brought our greatest
hopes to life.
But now we face a looming
nightmare.
We brought this nightmare
upon ourselves
when we placed our fate
into the hands of
a false prophet.
(clamoring and jeering)
Supreme Chancellor Korin
has turned his back
on everything we hold sacred.
(jeering)
At this very moment,
he consorts with our enemies
a thousand light-years away,
negotiating a treaty
with the Planetary Union,
a treaty that will imperil
our civilization.
The Chancellor would
have you believe
that this treaty protects us.
But in truth, it weakens us.
It demands we surrender
our divine right
to expand our territory.
It forces us to protect
other worlds
at the risk of our own...
to spill our blood,
to expend our resources
for their benefit!
If this treaty is ratified,
what will they demand next?
More of their ships
in our space?
Their politicians
interfering in our affairs?
The inevitable erosion
of our ideals and our identity?
Where will it end?
When you go home to
your children,
will you tell them you chose
to destroy our future?
Or will you tell them
you have reclaimed our dreams,
and placed your trust
in the word of Avis?
A word which declares...
that Krill comes first!
Place your faith in me
as your Supreme Chancellor,
and I will end this madness!
And those responsible
will pay for their treason!
(crowd jeering)
(chanting "Teleya!")
(dramatic music playing)
(theme song playing)
(orchestra playing show tune)
(singing): ♪ The sun will come
out tomorrow ♪
♪ So you gotta hang
on till tomorrow ♪
♪ Come what may ♪
♪ Tomorrow, tomorrow ♪
♪ I love ya tomorrow ♪
♪ You're only a day away ♪
♪ Tomorrow, tomorrow ♪
♪ I love ya tomorrow ♪
♪ You're only a day ♪
♪ A... ♪
♪ Way... ♪
(cheering)
Did you enjoy your evening
on Broadway, Chancellor?
Indeed. However, the repeated
prophecy of the orphan child
was quite haunting.
"The sun will come
out... tomorrow."
In our culture, the sun is a
symbol of suffering and death.
Yes, in retrospect, "Oklahoma!"
might've been a better choice.
The performance
depicted a time
of tremendous hardship
in your history.
For how long did your world
endure this catastrophe?
The Great Depression.
It lasted over a decade.
Sadly, those kinds of
societal collapses
used to be pretty common.
It wasn't until we
advanced beyond the need
to buy and sell things,
that our world became
a more stable place.
The Merchant Class is the
backbone of our civilization.
And our society has been stable
for tens of thousands of years.
What you lack is
divine guidance.
All things considered,
I'd say we're doing pretty
well these days.
And yet, in the face
of the Kaylon threat,
you come to us begging
for salvation.
Pakor!
With all due respect, I wouldn't
exactly call it begging.
There's a clear and obvious
mutual advantage here.
The treaty is not just
for our advantage,
but for yours as well.
The Kaylon threat--
The Kaylon will be defeated.
Our fighting forces
are unequaled.
But... our combined forces
will ensure success.
When the threat is existential,
one cannot afford a
margin for error.
A toast.
To our combined forces and
the salvation of all our worlds.
It's been a pleasure
hosting you, Chancellor.
Perhaps one day a Union
delegation can visit Krill.
We would be most pleased
to return your generosity.
Once the details are finalized,
I propose we sign the treaty
in our glorious capital
city of Dalakos.
And, we will celebrate
my re-instatement
as Supreme Chancellor.
It would be our great honor.
OZAWA: I've... been meaning
to ask about that, if I may.
You seem very certain
of your victory.
My opponent is a
divisive figure
who exploits fear and ignorance.
She has a devout following,
but it is insignificant.
Our projections show that
Chancellor Korin will prevail.
Once the people of Krill see you
for themselves, as I have,
they will understand you are not
the soulless monsters
my opponent would have
them believe.
Well, at the risk of getting us
all drunk on toasts,
here's to your victory,
Chancellor.
And to a new era of
long-lasting peace.
Hear, hear!
(saloon piano playing
"The Yellow Rose of Texas")
Aw, man, y'know, that makes me
miss your moustache.
(laughs) Oh, my God,
you had a moustache?
Oh, yeah, it was amazing.
I thought Moclans
didn't grow facial hair.
Doctor Finn was able
to stimulate growth.
What about the Hippocratic
Oath, "First do no harm"?
Wait a minute, how
is that harm?
It's a moustache.
(chuckles) She's got us there.
Whoa! Commander,
you might wanna pace yourself,
we're only in the 1800s.
Eh, don't worry about
me, I'll make it.
Have you been through
the whole simulation?
Almost. The pub crawl
through history
is a classic in my family.
My dad once made it
from ancient Greece
all the way to the Water Wars.
You know, I gotta say,
I've never understood
the "pub crawl."
We're here, we're drinking.
The booze is gonna be
exactly the same at
the next place.
Let's just stay here,
we're enjoying ourselves.
Hey. Here's to your promotion.
Lieutenant Commander Keyali.
-It's got a nice ring to it.
-Thanks, John.
Best part is, I don't have
to call you "sir" anymore.
That's fine by me.
Kinda like hearing
you use my name.
-Oh, yeah?
-Yeah.
Wouldn't mind hearing it
more often, actually.
Are you trying to
tell me something?
Oh, my God.
ISAAC:
This town will not accommodate
the numerical totality
of our combined mass.
Well, it was fun
while it lasted.
-(comm beeps)
-MAN: Bridge to Captain.
Go ahead.
MAN:
I have Admiral Halsey
on a priority-one channel for
you and Commander Grayson.
We're on our way.
So this is actually happening?
Like it's a done deal?
Everything but the ink.
The last few outstanding points
were finalized
about an hour ago.
Admiral, I gotta say,
congratulations to all of you.
This... This is huge.
Well, you and your crew
should congratulate
yourselves as well.
The Orville played
a critical role
leading up to this achievement.
I'm proud of you.
Thank you, sir.
The treaty signing
will take place
in Dalakos in one week.
Dalakos?
On Krill?
President Alcuzan
has been invited,
along with Senator
Balask and myself.
And I've requested The Orville
for transport duty.
Really?
You'll be among the
first Union officers
ever to set foot on Krill.
Sir, this is...
this is amazing.
We're so grateful.
Don't be, you've earned it.
You'll head back to
Earth immediately
to pick up the delegation.
Saddle up, you've
got a long ride.
Halsey out.
-Oh, my God.
-This is unbelievable.
You know what the
best part is?
What?
He had no idea we'd
been drinking.
-This is a good day.
-It is a good day.
(chuckles)
(tranquil music playing)
(hatch whirring)
Ah! Captain Mercer.
So good to finally
meet you.
The privilege
is all mine, Mr. President.
(chuckles) And you must be
Commander Grayson.
I've heard great things
from Admiral Halsey.
We both admired your
father very much.
Thank you, Mr. President.
I know he felt the same.
Well, I appreciate
the honor guard,
but, uh, you didn't have to go
to the trouble.
It's no trouble, sir.
This is my Chief of Security,
Commander Talla Keyali.
Your team is impressive,
Commander.
Thank you, sir.
It's not every day
I get to show them off
for a group like this.
If you're ready to get settled,
we'll show you to your quarters.
Ah, wonderful.
Ed.
Before we get underway,
there's something
you should know...
about the election.
What is it?
What they call a treaty,
I call a capitulation
of cowards!
(jeering)
Their Union is a patchwork
alliance
of hundreds of species,
that long ago surrendered
their identities to this...
this social collective that
rapes them of their purity.
(crowd jeering)
Would you let them
do the same to us?
ALL: (jeering) No!
Make no mistake.
The outstretched hand
of welcome
will quickly become
the fist of oppression.
(jeering)
We must kill this treaty,
and reclaim our rightful place
as the dominant force
in this galaxy.
(crowd chanting "Teleya!")
(screen chimes)
After you released
Teleya to the Krill,
she quit the military.
Several months later,
she reemerged
as part of a small but
vocal opposition
to the Krill establishment.
It didn't really gain traction
until the Krill started talking
about a treaty with the Union.
That's when Teleya's rhetoric
started to resonate.
More and more people
began to take her seriously.
Her personal story,
the so-called massacre
of her brother and crew,
helped her reinvent herself
as a sort of folk hero.
She's been gaining popularity
ever since.
Does she have a chance
in the election?
It's our understanding
that Chancellor Korin
maintains a wide lead.
But for some, his embrace
of the treaty
makes him look soft.
To the more radical
demographics,
his comparatively moderate
administration
seems out of touch.
So, what you've got
is a political vacuum.
A political vacuum is
a dangerous thing.
Always.
If no one fills it with hope,
someone will fill it with fear.
Regardless of the outcome,
we have to assume Teleya
will do everything in her power
to undermine the alliance.
I thought we'd
made progress.
Ed, you know her better
than any of us.
If there are any insights
you could provide
as far as her thinking,
her vulnerabilities,
it would be very helpful.
(sighs)
I promise you,
you will achieve nothing
by this demonstration.
(jeering)
There will be no additional
funding
for the Uvok Province!
(door chirps)
Come in.
-Hey.
I was just checking to see
how you're holding up.
I owe you an apology.
For what?
You objected to my
releasing Teleya,
and I ignored you.
I just...
wanted to believe that I had
reached her on some level.
You can't blame yourself
for what Teleya believes.
(sighs)
Look at this.
Chancellor Korin gave
us limited access
to the Krill informational
network.
(crowd jeering)
The people of the
Uvok Province
have repeatedly
shown themselves
to be blasphemous degenerates,
unworthy of our aid!
By assembling in this place,
you show yourselves
to be as disloyal as they are!
You will regret what
you do here today!
(computer chirps)
A few minutes after this,
the protestors were gassed
with helocine.
Eleven people died.
My God.
This is the guy
we want to sign a treaty with?
You know what the real problem
with this event is?
It never happened.
It's completely fictitious.
And there are countless
other files
that show all kinds of scenarios
where Chancellor Korin
oppresses his people.
There are even some
from the other side
designed to discredit Teleya,
although they're not
that different
from her actual speeches.
How can you tell
the difference?
Sometimes I can't.
I asked the Chancellor,
and he said
they call it "influence
operations."
They have computers
generating thousands
of these things every second,
trying to stoke outrage.
Even the angry crowds are phony.
What do you make of it?
As far as the election goes?
I don't know.
Teleya is inexperienced.
She's a populist,
not a politician.
She's running on rhetoric
and fire.
So, the Chancellor
thinks that he's still a lock.
He says he trusts
his people
to follow the will of Avis.
You never want
to underestimate
a populist movement.
Emotions can be
more persuasive than thoughts.
(sighs)
You think any of this will
affect the treaty?
Well, battle plans are
only perfect
until the fighting starts.
I gotta believe that
some version of that
holds true for peace treaties.
(intense music playing)
We're approaching Krill
space, Captain.
Drop to sublight.
Aye, sir.
Three Krill battlecruisers
are closing on our position.
They're signaling
us to follow them.
Gordon.
Matching speed and heading.
ISAAC:
The planet is enveloped
by cirrostratus
and cumulonimbus cloud layers.
Average surface temperature
is five degrees above freezing.
SENATOR BALASK: That's going to
be a bumpy entry.
Your navigator will
have to be alert.
I think you'll find
Ensign Burke
is pretty quick on the draw.
I promise I'll get you there
in one piece, Senator.
Captain, the shuttle has been
cleared for departure.
We'll see you soon.
Go make some history.
Approaching ionosphere.
Sir, I'm gonna be feeding you
the course corrections
pretty quickly.
This atmosphere is gonna kick
our butts a little,
but I'll try to keep us
out of the roughest air.
Very good, Ensign.
Sir, I'm happy to take the helm
if you want.
You're asking if I'm
as sharp as I used to be?
No, sir, not at all.
When I called you from Earth,
I knew you and Kelly were drunk.
Point made, sir.
Shuttle's yours.
Brace for entry.
"Night falls fast,
today is in the past."
What is that, sir?
It's from a poem.
Okay, here we go.
It's about to get bumpy, folks.
How dense is the
full cloud cover?
About 80 kilometers.
We've lost sight of our escorts.
I have 'em on lateral scans.
They're on us like glue.
Look...
(dramatic music playing)
All right, this is it.
We'll see you soon.
Yes, sir. I'll be here.
You know, Ensign...
this is history in the making.
Perhaps you'd like to join us
as an observer.
If your Captain has
no objections.
None, Admiral.
Very well. Come on.
Who's this guy?
That's Avis, the Krill deity.
Looks like a lotta laughs.
President Alcuzan. Welcome.
This is truly an historic
occasion.
Your gracious invitation
honors us, Chancellor.
Please, join us for
some Kahspid cider.
A Krill delicacy.
Alien delicacies.
Always a crap shoot.
-Wow!
-Mm. That's fantastic.
My God, could we get
a case of this?
We take great pride
in our Kahspid crops.
I will have some sent
to your ship.
Your timing is excellent.
Several districts have
yet to be counted,
but we remain confident.
Tonight, we will all have reason
to celebrate.
Come, please.
What is your opinion
of our city, Ensign?
It's amazing.
The view was incredible
from the shuttle.
I hope we get to see more of it.
If I may propose a toast,
Chancellor...
To the treaty.
And, to the future.
(glasses clink)
What's that cluster of lights?
The Grand Marketplace,
our center of commerce.
Merchants from every
corner of the planet
can be found there.
Chancellor, I am sorry
to interrupt,
but the final districts
are reporting their outcomes.
And?
The situation has changed.
(overlapping voices on screens)
What's going on?
Teleya. She has prevailed
in the last seven districts.
But you're still ahead, right?
What's happening?
The final districts
are being counted now.
The Chancellor is winning,
but only by a small margin.
No.
This is...
not possible.
We have lost the
Katal District.
And the Garathon is
turning as well.
Chancellor,
we cannot win without them!
(screen chirps)
Several districts
have yet to report,
but they will have no bearing
on the final outcome.
The Circle of Clerics
have conferred,
and they are prepared
to sanctify Teleya
as the Supreme Chancellor
of Krill.
When sanctification
is ratified,
the anointing ceremony
will commence,
and all citizens--
Notify the Circle of Clerics
that they must suspend
their judgment immediately.
We intend to challenge
this result.
They are unlikely
to reconsider.
They will do as I say
as long as I am still
Supreme Chancellor.
Clearly, our projections
were flawed.
But close elections
are not unprecedented.
When the margin of victory
is this narrow,
a challenge is always honored.
And I am certain that once--
Korin!
You will come with us.
What is the meaning of this?!
We have orders
for your arrest.
Arrest? For what?
Treason.
Whose orders?
Supreme Chancellor Teleya.
You will come with us. Now.
This is heresy!
Teleya has not sworn her oath!
She has no authority!
I am Supreme Chancellor!
This is not an election,
it is a coup!
Pakor, contact the
Circle of Clerics!
Our fate belongs to Avis now.
(groaning) Let me go, you fools!
The people have...
We are observers here.
You have no right to detain us.
-Mr. President!
-Sir, are you all right?
Help him!
Take them.
Commander. One of
the Krill vessels
is locking onto us with
a tractor beam.
-Hail them.
-They're already hailing us.
Put them through.
This is Commander Kelly Grayson.
What the hell are you doing?
The treaty has been nullified.
Supreme Chancellor Teleya has
called for your imprisonment.
I'm sorry, what?
Surrender your vessel
and prepare to be boarded.
Contact the landing party.
I'm trying. No response.
I demand to speak with
Captain Mercer.
Surrender now.
You will not be warned again.
-Any word?
-Nothing.
Bortus, I want you to lock onto
their tractor emitters.
-Stand by to fire on my command.
-Aye, sir.
-Bridge to Engineering.
-Lamarr here.
KELLY GRAYSON:
John, execute Directive 21.
Sir, please confirm.
Did you say 21?
GRAYSON:
Yes. Have Dr. Finn assist you.
Do it now.
Understood.
Go to red alert.
Targeting scanners are locked.
Weapons standing by.
-Gordon, get ready to haul ass.
-You got it.
ISAAC: They have activated their
docking clamps.
Fire.
(lasers firing)
-We're clear!
-GRAYSON: Evasive maneuvers!
Full power to the deflectors!
Hard about, return fire!
Port deflectors are failing!
Torpedo launchers are off-line!
John, what's your status?
JOHN LAMARR:
Almost ready, Commander!
-How close is "almost"?
-LAMARR: Two minutes!
I can't shake 'em!
Sir, what if we tried
an expanding helix maneuver?
Never heard of it.
That's because I
just made it up.
-Do it.
-(ship rumbles)
Krill fighters in pursuit.
John, we're about to lose
deflectors. It's now or never.
LAMARR: Directive 21
clear, Commander.
Gordon, take us to quantum.
(crowd roaring)
(chanting "Teleya!")
-Hail Avis!
-Hail Teleya!
(shouting continues)
The Anhkana teaches us
that a battle is not won
until the last enemy
is vanquished.
We have achieved a great
victory today,
but an enemy remains
in our midst.
(crowd roaring, jeering)
Look into the eyes
of the people you have betrayed!
You are a traitor to your world,
and a heretic in the
eyes of Avis.
Do you wish to beg for mercy?
(speaking Krill)
Then it is my duty as
Supreme Chancellor
to see that justice is done.
(jeering)
(grunts)
(crowd whooping and jeering)
(crowd chanting "Teleya!")
He is not the last
of our enemies.
I have learned that the
President of the Planetary Union
and his delegation have
been apprehended.
-(cheering)
-They too shall face justice!
(crowd roaring)
We need to speak
with Chancellor Teleya.
Or whoever the hell
is in charge.
You can't just hold us
here indefinitely.
At least let us contact
The Orville.
You've got the President
of the Planetary Union in here.
Do you want to be held
responsible for starting a war?
How about a cup of coffee?
Commander Grayson must be aware
of our situation by now.
She'll contact the Union.
Assuming The Orville
hasn't been captured.
I'm sorry, Ensign, we never
should've brought you along.
Captain, there's no
way this doesn't mean
a declaration of
war with the Krill. Right?
They've abducted the President.
There's your answer.
If there's a drawn-out conflict,
it'll weaken our resources.
We can bet the Kaylon will seize
the opportunity to attack.
What then?
We'll find ourselves fighting
a two-front war.
Of course, so will the Krill.
We need each other,
whether they understand
it or not.
We have to get them to see that.
It's too late.
(door opens)
Captain Mercer.
You will come with us.
What about them?
Just you.
Go with them.
We can't do anything
from in here.
You may go.
So silent.
Nothing to say, Captain?
Looks like you're
an uptown girl now.
Billy Joel.
(deep breath) I guess...
congratulations are in order.
Thank you.
Captivity notwithstanding...
it's nice to see your face.
You should feel validated.
Your faith in me
has made this victory possible.
How so?
If you had not released me,
I would still be in
Union custody.
I let you go
because I believed
we'd found some common ground,
not so you could drive a deeper
wedge between our two peoples.
There was never
a common ground.
You were merely too stupid
to resist a false seduction.
Yeah. Well, movie night was fun,
but that's not what
I'm talking about.
Teleya, we share a common enemy.
And my ensign is right:
if the Kaylon attack us again,
we're gonna need each other.
Our military has developed
new and more powerful weapons.
Our fleet is stronger
than ever before.
An alliance with outsiders
is no longer necessary.
Well, about half your population
disagrees.
Korin had a lot of support.
Korin's influence
has diminished considerably.
Ask him yourself if
you would like.
You will find him in the center
of the Capitol Square.
Or, at least his head.
You killed him.
Most men who lose their heads
tend to die, yes.
How could you do that?
Teleya, that's not who you are.
A year later, you still cling
to an illusion I created.
Captain, you really must
find yourself a...
what is your word for it?
A girlfriend.
You murdered a man.
I purified the soul
of our world.
Well, if that's the
way you see it...
then I guess you're right.
I was too stupid.
Praise Avis,
his eyes are finally open.
So, is that why you
brought me here?
To remind me what
an idiot I was?
I brought you here
to see for myself.
To be sure it was really you.
Why?
I promised my people the blood
of the Union contingent.
What are you saying?
You and your colleagues
are to be executed
in the morning.
So, you want me dead too?
I did not know you were part
of the delegation.
Teleya. I let you go.
I'm asking you to do
the same for us.
Now, you may not want a treaty,
but do you really want to start
a war with the Union?
Take a look around
you, Captain.
I now command the full
might of Krill.
It is you who should
be asking yourself,
is the Union prepared
for war with us?
There's an old Earth verse
that describes a traveler,
who comes upon the ancient
ruined statue of an Emperor,
inscribed with the words,
"My name is Ozymandias,
king of kings.
Look upon my works, ye mighty,
and despair!"
Only there's nothing
left beside it
except empty desert.
Hubris has a way of coming back
to bite you in the ass.
Our time in this
realm is finite, Captain,
as you will soon learn.
One can live it in a
light of command,
or in a darkness of servitude.
I choose the way of Ozymandias.
Cha-FAJ!
Take him back to his cell.
The execution will proceed
as planned.
Teleya, listen to me!
-You can't--
-Goodbye, Ed.
I am glad we had the chance
to talk one last time.
What do you call it? Closure?
(door whirring open)
Put this on.
-What for?
-Do as you are told.
Move.
(dramatic music playing)
Commander, I'm getting
a response to our hails.
About time. Put it through.
Hello, Commander Grayson.
Teleya...
I apologize for the delay
in contacting you.
As you can imagine,
I have been quite busy.
Where are my people?
Your people?
They are my people
now, Commander,
prisoners charged
with conspiracy
to subvert the government
of Krill.
We both know that's a lie.
Let them go before you make
a bad situation worse.
Or what?
You will take them by force?
That would end badly for you.
Return to Earth while
you still can.
You know goddamn well I'm not
leaving without that delegation!
You are becoming emotional,
Commander.
But then that was always
the concern, was it not?
That your feelings for Ed
would impair
your ability to make
the proper command decisions?
And what would you
know about that?
TELEYA:
More than you realize.
He told me many things
about you.
Then you also know
I don't back down from a fight.
TELEYA:
Ed is gone, Commander.
Perhaps you should do what
you have done before
when this happens:
run to the arms of another.
Leave. Now.
And if you re-enter our space,
I promise you will never
see home again.
Gordon.
Back us off toward the border.
-But, Commander--
-Do it.
Aye, sir.
Talla. Get me Union Central.
We've got the fleet
on high alert,
and we're sending every
available ship.
Sir, has the Union acknowledged
a formal state of war?
Yes, it has.
Commander, what's the status
of Directive 21?
Still in progress, sir.
It's gonna need more time.
I wouldn't put all
our chips on it.
Then our best option right now
is to mount a military rescue,
extract the delegation,
and withdraw as
quickly as possible.
How soon can help get here?
The first contingent of ships
should arrive at the Krill
border in under two hours.
I know we were all counting
on this treaty.
But for now, let's
just stay focused
on getting our people home.
Perry out.
(crowd clamoring)
(dramatic music playing)
Where are we going?
(dramatic music rising)
(locals speaking Krill)
(sensual music playing)
(women moaning)
-(speaking Krill)
-Move.
Do'maflach! Do'maflach!
Do'maflach!
-Do'maflach!
-(beggar speaking Krill)
Do'maflach!
-What does he want?
-Keep moving.
Do'maflach!
Maybe you should just
buy some meat.
-Do not speak!
-(grunts)
(intense music playing)
(groans)
-You will come with us.
-Who are you?
All will be explained.
Now move!
(intense music playing)
(crowd speaking Krill)
(panel beeping)
Where is she?
(beeping)
What's going on?
What is this all about?
She is yours.
What do you mean?
She is your daughter.
-What?
-You had...
an intimate relationship
with Teleya.
Yes, I did, but...
You are her father.
That's... Teleya's daughter?
Why is she here?
Teleya feared that if
anyone learned
of the child's existence,
it would lead to scandal,
and destroy her political
ambitions.
She provides for
the girl's needs,
but has no contact with her.
I have been the child's
caretaker
since the day she was born.
You can see... she
is half human.
Does she know about me?
She does not.
It is best that way.
Can I talk to her?
Hi there.
Hello.
What's your name?
Anaya.
That's a pretty name.
What's yours?
I'm Ed.
That's a funny name.
You look funny.
Thanks. I get that a lot.
(chuckles)
You have a nice house.
Thank you.
-Do you like it here?
-Yes.
Do they take good care of you?
I have my own room.
I have lots of toys,
and I get to eat
whatever I want.
Sounds pretty good.
I-I don't know how.
It's easy. I'll show you.
Wow. You know,
you're really smart.
She is quite extraordinary.
Yeah.
Yeah, she is.
Do you feel shame?
No. No, why would I?
Some would look at Anaya
and see an abomination.
I see a beautiful child.
And something much more: Hope.
We are part of a coalition
that believes
that a treaty with the Union
is still possible.
Given the outcome
of the election,
it would take a miracle
to make it happen now.
Anaya could be that miracle.
What do you mean?
You must show the child
to all of Krill.
Her mother will no longer
be able to deny her existence.
You want me to...
embarrass Teleya in order to
bring down her government,
-is that it?
-No.
That would accomplish
nothing.
Someone else like her
would eventually take her place.
There is always another Teleya.
You must persuade her
to stand up with you and
acknowledge the child.
Some of her supporters
will feel betrayed,
but others may reconsider their
hostility toward the Union.
Anaya could become a
powerful symbol of coexistence.
She might turn the
tide toward peace.
First off, Teleya and
I are not exactly
on the best of terms right now.
Did you know that she decided
to let you live?
-What?
-That is why she released you.
We have an informant
in her security detail.
The guards had orders
to take you back to your ship.
Evidently, Captain,
she still cares about you.
(sighs)
I'm gonna need a ride back
to the capital.
Goodbye, Anaya.
It was very nice to meet you.
(intense music playing)
Admiral Ozawa is hailing.
Put her through.
Status report, Commander.
No change, sir.
Then we prepare to go in.
We'll avoid a firefight
if we can,
but if the Krill refuse
to release our people...
Understood.
Set a course for Krill,
maximum speed.
With pleasure.
Leave us.
Explain yourself!
You were gonna let me go.
You stupid fool!
Why did you come back here?
Why did you set me free?
You freed me once.
I was simply repaying the debt.
(sighs) I do not wish
to kill you.
I've seen Anaya.
What?
Our daughter.
I've seen her.
-I've talked to her.
-You have been deceived.
Oh, I don't think so.
She's...
she's amazing.
She even looks like you.
I can't even imagine
how difficult it must've been
for you to give her up.
The child is not
of pure blood.
She will have a better life
away from
the scornful eyes of the public.
What is it the
Anhkana teaches?
"With every child,
a new world is born."
"Gently Falling Rain."
What?
That is what it
means-- "Anaya."
The name I gave to her.
It's beautiful.
We should be celebrating her.
We should be standing with her,
side by side...
-No.
-...showing the entire galaxy
-that we can all coexist.
-No.
-She is living proof of that.
-We created a life together,
-No.
-Teleya!
-No, no, no!
Well, then what did you
have her for?
What did you have her for,
if you were just gonna keep her
locked away
-like some kind of criminal?
-Oh!
How human of you to
ask that question.
But then you terminate
life with abandon, do you not?
Would you like to
see what happens
to those who commit
such murderous acts on Krill?
Supreme Chancellor!
No, please. Continue
with your work.
With gratitude, Chancellor.
Who are they?
Parents to a child
who will never be.
They were caught after
terminating a life in the womb.
Those who do so are brought
to a facility like this one.
Their DNA is extracted,
and a genetic profile is used
to create a simulation of
the child that could have been.
So they may see the life
they have destroyed.
(breathing unsteadily)
Are you my mother?
I would have loved
so much to be with you.
I wish you had not sent me away.
(sobbing)
(sobs)
Jesus Christ, Teleya.
Is this the kind of world
you want your daughter
to grow up in?
Our daughter?
Take Captain Mercer
back to his cell.
(crowd roaring, jeering)
(dramatic music playing)
(chanting "Teleya!")
I have promised you the blood
of our enemies,
and you shall have it!
(crowd roaring)
These are the co-conspirators
to whom Korin the traitor
was prepared
to relinquish our sovereignty!
(jeering)
Liars and demons all.
Enemies of Avis.
Today, they will know justice!
(dramatic music playing)
(intense music playing)
Talla, open a channel
to Krill.
-Anyone in particular?
-General frequency.
See if anyone answers the phone.
-(monitor beeps)
-You're on, sir.
This is Commander
Kelly Grayson
of the starship Orville.
As you can see, I'm back,
and I've brought a few friends.
So I'm only going
to tell you once:
release our people,
and we will leave peacefully.
What is your response?
Which of these creatures
shall be the first to
taste the blade?
(crowd roaring)
(whispers)
Launch all forces
to intercept. Obliterate them.
Their planetary defense system
has been activated.
Multiple Krill vessels
are closing on our position.
That's our answer. Go to
red alert. Battle stations.
(crowd chanting "Teleya!")
Teleya. It's not too
late to stop this.
My dear Captain...
I am just getting started.
(crowd chanting "Teleya!")
This one!
(crowd roaring)
-Ugh!
-(crowd cheering)
-(groaning)
-(grenades sparking)
(alarm sounding)
(hovercar humming)
(Alcuzan groaning)
What's going on? Who are you?
Reporting for duty, sir.
-Commander Lamarr?
-At your service.
-Directive 21.
-You know it.
You've lost some blood,
but you're gonna be okay.
Claire!
Microdermal makeover.
Trust me, Mr. President,
I'm much better-looking
in person.
You're a welcome sight
to me, Doctor.
Everybody hang on,
we're not out of this yet.
(dramatic music playing)
Isaac, anything?
ISAAC: Commander Lamarr
has activated his transponder.
They are moving away
from the capital.
-Where's your shuttle?
-Bearing 3-7-5 mark one.
-(alarm pinging)
-Uh-oh.
-What's wrong?
-The nav system just went out.
You do know where you're
going, right?
I mean, this kind
of looks familiar.
-Oh, boy.
-It's okay,
we got a navigator right here.
Help me out, Charly.
-There! Make a right!
-You sure?
Nope.
-Ow!
-Easy, John!
Sorry!
(ships clang)
Okay. Okay, yeah, that's it.
(clangs)
Commander, I am tracking
the shuttle,
400 kilometers and closing.
Well, that doesn't look good.
ISAAC: The shuttle
has sustained heavy damage.
-What's their position?
-Bearing 121 mark six.
Lay down fire
and get us into docking range.
Open the bay doors.
They're secure!
Grayson to Ozawa.
We have the delegation.
I suggest we get the
hell outta here.
OZAWA: Acknowledged.
Ozawa to all ships:
disengage and retreat.
-Set a course for Earth.
-Aye, sir!
I'm pleased to report
that President Alcuzan
is going to make
a full recovery.
He plans to address
the Union Council later today.
It was all looking
so hopeful just a few days ago.
There is... one card left
to play. If we want to.
(sighs)
Anaya.
Revealing her could
force Teleya's hand.
Admiral...
she didn't ask to be
born into the eye of a storm.
And I gotta be honest,
I'm not so sure Teleya wouldn't
make her disappear
just to protect the regime.
You really think
she'd be capable of that?
I thought I knew her.
I don't.
She's your daughter.
The President is leaving
it up to you.
Tell him thank you.
It's very possible
that I'll never see her again.
Well, that'd be a shame.
I always thought you'd make
a terrific father.
I'm...
sad we never got that far.
Me too.
It's almost like yesterday
was one life,
and today is another.
And everything's different
on this side of time.
Yeah, it is.
At least you know she's
in a safe place,
and well cared for.
I miss her.
Is that weird to say?
I only met her once.
I don't even know her.
And I miss her.
(sighs)
The treaty is dead.
But we have to find a way
to preserve some kind of peace.
For Anaya.
You wanna have breakfast
with me?
(slight chuckle)
(contemplative music playing)
(theme song playing)